

Digestion system

$stomach slowly reduces according to baseline Digestive stat.
As it decrements, $rectum and $energy increment at the same rate.
$energy is used all the time, when idle and when moving.
Idle consumption is governed by heart rate
Movement consumption = heart rate modulated by endurance

$rectum: as stomach decrements, it increments rectum (poo).
More rectum is bad as it contributes to $sluggishness, and can cause a Poo Explosion event at 100%. Do poos to decrease $rectum value
Poos have a cooldown timer, the length of which is determined by Digestion. Better Digestion, faster you can poo again.
Poos can't be done above 40% speed.
Poo explosions cause some negative consequence (affecting "Health" stat? Increased probability of illness related events?). They force a 100% poo which gives a huge temporary

speed boost without an energy cost.

$sluggishness a variable that increases when stomach or rectum pass certain thresholds, and is used when calculating top speed

eating hay increments stomach contents with food


Perspiration system

eating water increments stomach contents with water.
water stomach content leaks into hydration and bladder the same way food does into rectum and energy

wee system works exactly like the poo system


$temperature is calculated from environment temperature & bpm.
Sweating starts kicks in above a certain temperature and reduces temp back to the threshold at a ratedetermined on horse Sweatiness
Sweating removes heat at the cost of hydration.
hydration falls at a pace determined by bpm and Sweatiness

Circadian system
$tiredness builds up at a standard rate determinged by Endurance
When at 20% or less, problems to things
Going to sleep is an action
Sleeping can only happen when stationary
Sleeping restores tiredness and is when any stat growth occurs
standing or lying sleep goes at different rates, with an event probability penalty?



metabolic system
tdee = bpm added each tick for one cycle of the clock sets calorie break even for day
could map calorie system onto hay. this would affect stats such as
muscle mass
body fat
BMR
which could be used when calculating stuff like top speed, endurance, etc

alternately could simply map calorie surplus/defecit directly onto a stat growth system on the endurance/top speed stats



Stats
Top Speed (how fast you can go. should be able to grow it somehow. adjusted down for sluggishness, tiredness, maybe other stuff like bladder threshold or
Endurance (how quickly energy drains during movement. maybe it does this by actually being the figure referenced when calculating how the heartbeat reacts to movement/stress)
Digestion (used by lots of processes but mainly how quick stomach moves to rectum and poo cooldowns.
Sweatiness (base sweat rate)

pulling stuff like trailors might need a strength stat.


